>> Stephen: HOW DO I LOOK?
>> FINE.
>> Stephen: HOW'S THE HAIR?
>> IT'S CROOKED.
>> Stephen: IT'S CROOKED?
THERE YOU GO.
THAT'S BETTER.
WHO'S THE GUEST TONIGHT.
>> THANDIE NEWTON.
>> Stephen: I HAVE JUICE
NEWTON,
SIR ISAAC NEWTONS.
I HAVE NEWTON, COMMA, FIG.
THERE YOU GO.
THANDIE NEWTON.
JIM, HOW IS IT LOOKING?
>> WE'RE STILL GETTING THE
SATELLITE.
WE NEED 30 SECONDS.
>> Stephen: OKAY, I'LL JUST TAKE
A NAP THEN!
THIS SORT OF THING NEVER
HAPPENED AT THE ED SULLIVAN
THEATER.
I WISH I WAS THERE AGAIN.
>> IT'S "THE LATE SHOW WITH
STEPHEN COLBERT"."
TONIGHT, STEPHEN SLEEPING OR IS
HE WEAK?
PLUS STEPHEN WELCOMES THANDIE
NEWTON, AND INA GARTEN.
WITH A SPECIAL APPEARANCE BY
JOHN MULANEY, FEATURING JON
BATTISTE AND STAY HUMAN.
AND NOW LIFE FROM HIS OWN
SUBCONSCIOUS, IT'S STEPHEN
COLBERT!
>> Stephen: HEY, EVERYBODY,
THANK YOU, THANK YOU SO MUCH,
PLEASE, PLEASE HAVE A SEAT.
LADIES AND GENTLEMEN, EVERYBODY,
IN HERE, OUT THERE, ALL AROUND
THE WORLD.
WELCOME TO "THE LATE SHOW."
I AM YOUR HOST, STEPHEN COLBERT.
( CHEERS AND APPLAUSE ).
>> Stephen: HOLD ON A SECOND.
THERE YOU GO.
FOLKS, AS YOU CAN SEE, I AM
COMING TO ONCE AGAIN FROM THE
BEAUTIFUL ED SULLIVAN THEATER
HERE IN MIDTOWN MANHATTAN.
AND I CAN DO THAT BECAUSE  TODAY
MAY 1, THE FEDERAL STAY-AT-HOME
ORDER HAS BEEN LIFT LIFT
AND SINCE WE'RE GOVERNED BY THE
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS
COMMISSION, I'M PRETTY SURE
THAT'S OLLY OLLY OXEN FREE.
OF COURSE, I'M PLAYING IT SAFE
BY BEING A CARTOON, WHICH IS THE
ULTIMATE MASK.
GREAT TO SEE YOU AGAIN, JON.
( PIANO RIFF )
>> Jon: GREAT TO SEE YOU, TOO,
STEPHEN.
HOW DO I SOUND?
YOU.
>> Stephen: LOOK FANTASTIC.
YOU SOUND AMAZING.
I AM SO GLAD TO BE HERE, SINCE
LOCKDOWN I HAVE BEEN DREAMING
ABOUT DOING THE SHOW FROM THE ED
SULLIVAN.
WAIT A MINUTE.
MAYBE THIS IS JUST A DREAM.
HOLD ON, LET ME CHECK.
NOPE.
NOT WAKING UP.
THIS MUST BE REAL LIFE.
( PIANO RIFF )
>> Jon: IT'S REAL, STEPHEN, AND
I'M STAYING HUMAN.
THAT'S SOME SMOKIN' SQUID RIGHT
THERE!
( PIANO RIFF )
>> Stephen: MOVING ON TO
SOMETHING SLIGHTLY MORE
CARTOONISH, DONALD TRUMP.
TRUMP'S POLL NUMBERS ARE GOING
DOWN THE TWEETING THRONE BECAUSE
HE SO FRAGRANTLY SHANKED THE
RESPONSE TO THE CORONAVIRUS.
FOR EXAMPLE, HIS SERIES OF
DISASTROUS PRESS CONFERENCES, IN
WHICH HE SUGGESTED, AMONG OTHER
THINGS, THAT PEOPLE SOMEHOW PUT
BLEACH IN THEIR BODES.
OH, LET'S GIVE THAT A TRY,
OKAY, THAT'S A LITTLE TOO MUCH.
LET'S FIX THAT.
THERE YOU GO.
SO, TO CONTINUE HIS PERFECT
RECORD FOR NEVER TAKING
RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANYTHING,
TRUMP HAS STARTED A PUBLIC
CAMPAIGN TO BLAME CHINA FOR THE
PANDEMIC.
( AS TRUMP )
"I WANT TO SEE THE VIRUS'
LONG-FORM BIRTH CERTIFICATE.
I HAVE A FEELING IT'S FROM
CHINA, WHICH MANY ARE CALLING
'THE KENYA OF ASIA.'"
SPECIFICALLY, TRUMP HAS
PRESSURED THE INTELLIGENCE
COMMUNITY FOR EVIDENCE TO
SUPPORT AN UNSUBSTANTIATED
THEORY THAT A GOVERNMENT
LABORATORY IN WUHAN WAS THE
ORIGIN OF THE CORONAVIRUS
OUTBREAK.
I'VE SEEN THAT THEORY, TOO, FROM
MY SOURCE ON THE INTERNET, WHO
ASSURES ME, "ERMAHGERD,
CERERNERVEHRUS CAME FROM A
WUHERN LERB!"
BUT YESTERDAY, THE DIRECTOR OF
NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE RELEASED A
STATEMENT SAYING, "THE
INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY CONCURS
WITH THE WIDE SCIENTIFIC
CONSENSUS THAT THE COVID-19
VIRUS WAS NOT MANMADE OR
GENETICALLY MODIFIED."
OH, "NOT GENETICALLY MODIFIED."
SO IT'S BETTER FOR YOU THAN
CORN?
SCIENTIFIC CONSENSUS IS THAT
COVID 19 "BEGAN AS A BAT VIRUS."
NO WORD YET ON HOW IT SPREAD TO
HUMANS, BUT SCIENTISTS THINK THE
LIKELY CULPRIT WAS THIS MAN.
"I HAD SEX WITH A BAT.
UPSIDE DOWN.
IT WAS PRETTY HOT."
YESTERDAY, TRUMP SAID HE
BELIEVED THE WUHAN LAB
CONSPIRACY THEORY, AND THEN
REPORTERS PRESSED HIM ON WHY HE
BELIEVED THAT.
>> Stephen: MY QUESTION IS
HAVE YOU SEEN ANYTHING AT THIS
POINT THAT GIVES YOU A HIGH
DEGREE OF CONFIDENCE THAT THE
WUHAN INSTITUTE OF VIROLOGY WAS
THE SOURCE?
>> YES, I HAVE.
YES, I HAVE.
>> Stephen: YES, HE HAS.
TRUMP LOOKED AT THE VIRUS UNDER
A MICROSCOPE AND SAW IT WAS
CLEARLY MADE IN CHINA.
THE REPORTER PRESSED HIM
FURTHER.
>> WHAT GIVES YOU A HIGH
DEGREE OF CONFIDENCE THAT THIS
ORIGINATED FROM THE WUHAN
INSTITUTE OF VIROLOGY?
>> I CAN'T TELL YOU THAT.
I'M NOT ALLOWED TO TELL YOU
THAT.
>> Stephen: (AS TRUMP)
"I COULD TELL YOU, BUT THEN I'D
HAVE TO KILL YOU.
PROBABLY WITH THE VIRUS I'M NOT
TAKING SERIOUSLY."
AND WHAT DO YOU MEAN, "YOU'RE
NOT ALLOWED TO"?
YOU'RE THE PRESIDENT.
ANYTHING YOU SAY IS INSTANTLY
DECLASSIFIED.
( AS TRUMP )
"LOOK, I'D LOVE TO TELL YOU, BUT
MY BOSS WOULD KILL ME.
AGAIN, WITH THE VIRUS I'M NOT
TAKING SERIOUSLY."
TRUMP MADE THESE COMMENTS AT AN
EVENT ABOUT PROTECTING SENIORS,
A GROUP HE'S NOT SURE HE
BELONGS TO.
>> THIS AFTERNOON, I'LL SIGN A
PROCLAMATION DECLARING THE MONTH
OF MAY TO BE "OLDER AMERICANS
MONTH."
I DON'T KNOW IF I'M IN THAT
CATEGORY.
I HAVE A FEELING I AM.
BUT I FEEL GOOD.
>> Stephen: THE I'M PRETTY
SURE BEING CONFUSED ABOUT
WHETHER YOU BELONG IN THE "OLDER
AMERICANS"
CATEGORY MEANS YOU BELONG IN THE
"OLDER AMERICANS" CATEGORY.
TRUMP ALSO WEIGHED IN ON THE
CHARACTER OF HIS OLD PAL GENERAL
MICHAEL FLYNN.
>> I THINK HE IS A FINE MAN.
I THINK HE HAS GOT A GREAT
FAMILY.
HE LOVES HIS SON.
I WILL TELL YOU, HIS SON WAS
AROUND A LOT, AND HE LOVES HIS
SON, AS PEOPLE GENERALLY DO.
>> Stephen: (AS TRUMP)
"PEOPLE GENERALLY LOVE THEIR
SONS BUT, OF COURSE, THERE IS AN
ERIC TO EVERY RULE."
TRUMP DESPERATELY MISSES HIS
RALLIES.
SO ON SUNDAY, HE'S PLANNING WHAT
HE HOPES IS THE NEXT BEST THING.
"A TWO-HOUR EVENT ON EMERGING
FROM THE CORONAVIRUS PANDEMIC
LIVE FROM THE LINCOLN MEMORIAL."
I CAN'T THINK OF ANYTHING MORE
APPROPRIATE THAN STANDING IN
FRONT OF LINCOLN MEMORY ALTHOUGH
SAYING, STATES CAN DO WHATEVER
THEY WANT.
IT'S UP TO THEM.
THAT'S WHY WE'RE DOING IT IN
FRONT OF A MAN FROZEN IN STONE,
INDOORS, SITTING IN A CHAIR FOR
ALL ETERNITY."
WE HAVEN'T HEARD A LOT FROM THE
PRESUMPTIVE DEMOCRATIC NOMINEE
AND NATIONAL TOOTH PRESERVE, JOE
BIDEN.
HE HAS BEEN SILENT ABOUT THE
SEXUAL ASSAULT CHARGES MADE BY
TARA READE.
HE TOLD WANT ASSOCIATED PRESS,
WHEN SHE WORKED FORED BY NEN
1993, HE RUBBED HER SHOULDERS
AND NECK AND PLAYED WITH HER
HAIR.
NOW, THAT WOULD BE WRONG EVEN IF
HE WERE HER HAIRDRESSER, UNLESS
HE WORKED AT SUPER UNCOMFORTABLE
CUT.
BUT IN A RECENT PODCAST, READE
TOOK THE ALLEGATIONS FURTHER,
SAYING, HE DID SOMETHING REALLY
BAD, SOMETHING I'M NOT ALLOWED
TO SAY ON CBS.
HOW DO I DO THIS?
A LITTLE HELP, PLEASE.
>> GRAB THEM BY THE PUSSY.
>> Stephen: YES, WHAT HE SAID
AND DID.
PARTS OF READE'S STORY HAVE BEEN
CORROBORATED BY HER BROTHER, A
FORMER COWORKER, AND A FORMER
NEIGHBOR WHO ALL SAID SHE TOLD
THEM ABOUT IT AT THE TIME.
AND A NEWLY RESURFACED VIDEO
APEERS TO SHOW READE'S MOTHER
CALLING IN TO "LARRY KING LIVE"
TO SEEK ADVICE.
YOU KNOW IT'S A ROUGH ERA FOR
WOMEN WHEN THEIR BEST OPTION WAS
TO CALL LARRY KING.
IT WAS EITHER, THAT THE
BUTTERBALL HOT LINE OR BEING
CALL NUMBER 10 ON WYYY IN THE
MORNING WITH WALLY AND THE
SNOOCH.
WHAT'S THE PHRASE THAT MAKES
ABUSERS PAY.
THAT'S A QUICK TRIK ONE
♪ I DON'T WANT TO WORK
I JUST WANT TO BANG ON THE DRUM
ALL DAY
♪ TODAY THE FORMER VICE
PRESIDENT FINALLY ADDRESSED THE
CHARGE AND MIKA MORNIN' DROVE
STRAIGHT AT IT.
>> WOULD YOU GO ON THE RECORD
WITH THE AMERICAN PEOPLE?
DID YOU SEXUALLY ASSAULT TARA
READE.
>> NO, IT'S NOT TRUE.
I'M SAYING UNEQUIVOCALLY TNEVER,
NEVER HAPPENED, AND IT DIDN'T,
NEVER HAPPENED.
>> Stephen: THERE IT IS.
COMPLETE DENIAL.
AND FURTHERMORE HE DOESN'T
REMEMBER HER COMPLAINING ABOUT
HIM.
>> I DON'T REMEMBER ANY TYPE OF
COMPLAINT SHE MAY HAVE MADE.
IT WAS 27 YEARS AGO.
I DON'T REMEMBER, NOR DOES
ANYONE ELSE THAT I'M AWARE OF.
THE FACT IS THAT-- THAT I DON'T
REMEMBER.
I DON'T REMEMBER ANY COMPLAINT
EVER BEEN MADE.
>> Stephen: SO HE DOESN'T
REMEMBER ANYTHING, THOUGH
RESEARCH DOES SHOW THERE IS
MEMORY LOSS ASSOCIATED WITH
DECADES OF HUFFING HAIR.
MIKA PUSHED BIDEN, ASKING IF HE
COULD PROMISE HER HE NEVER HAD A
SEXUAL ASSAULT COMPLAINT.
AND HE DID NOT HESITATE TO
EQUIVOCATE.
>> I AM ABSOLUTELY POSITIVE THAT
NO ONE THAT I AM AWARE OF EVER
WAS BEEN MADE AWARE OF ANY
COMPLAINT, A FORMAL COMPLAINT
MADE BY, OR COMPLAINT BY TARA
READE AGAINST ME AT THE TIME
THIS ALLEGEDLY HAPPENED 27 YEARS
AGO OR UNTIL THE-- I ANNOUNCED
FOR PRES-- WELL, I GUESS IT
WAS IN APRIL OR MAY OF THIS
YEAR.
I KNOW OF NO ONE WHO IS AWARE
THAT ANY COMPLAINT WAS MADE.
>> Stephen: THAT'S A LOT OF
QUALIFICATIONS.
( AS JOE BIDEN )
"LOOK, LOOK, I'M NOT AWARE THAT
I AM AWARE OF ANYBODY BEING
AWARE OF ANY PERSONS KNOWING
THAT ANYONE WAS AWARE OF A
COMPLAINT TO MY AWARENESS,
LISTEN, JACK, I
DON'T CARE WHERE YOU'RE AWARE,
AS LONG YOU'RE NOT A WEREWOLF.
WHAT'S THE QUESTION?
TRUMP WAS ASKED ABOUT THE BIDEN
CASE YESTERDAY, AND HE WAS
UNHELPFULLY SYMPATHETIC.
>> YOU KNOW, IT COULD BE FALSE
ACCUSATIONS.
I KNOW ALL ABOUT FALSE
I HAVE BEEN FALSELY CHARGED
NUMEROUS TIMES.
>> Stephen: (AS TRUMP)
"LOOK, I'LL MAKE JOE A DEAL.
I'LL SAY THAT HE WAS FALSELY
ACCUSED THIS ONE TIME, AS LONG
AS HE AGREES THAT I WAS FALSELY
ACCUSED 21 TIMES.
TELL YOU WHAT-- LET ME SWEETEN
THE DEAL.
EVEN IF HE LOSES IN NOVEMBER.
I PROMISE TO MAKE HIM A SUPREME
COURT JUSTICE.
NOBODY TELL HIM WHAT BOOFING
IS."
LIKE MANY OF THESE CASES, IT'S
HARD TO KNOW EXACTLY WHAT
HAPPENED AFTER SO MANY YEARS.
AND A LOT OF PEOPLE HAVE
COMPARED THIS TO ACCUSATIONS OF
CHRISTINE BLASEY FORD
AGAINST BRETT KAVANAUGH.
AND THAT'S LEGITIMATE.
AND WHILE BOTH ACCUSATIONS
SHOULD BE TAKEN SERIOUSLY, THERE
IS AT LEAST ONE DIFFERENCE: A
NOMINEE TO THE SUPREME COURT
GOES THROUGH A PROCESS OF
INVESTIGATION BY THE F.B.I. THEN
CONFIRMATION BY THE SENATE.
THEN THE SENATORS JUDGE.
BUT FOR THE PRESIDENCY, THERE'S
ONLY YOU, THE VOTERS.
YOU'RE THE JURY.
AND YOU ARE READY TO BE A JURY,
BECAUSE YOU'RE ALREADY
SEQUESTERED.
WE'VE GOT A GREAT SHOW FOR YOU
TONIGHT.
FROM HBOH,'S "WEST WORLD
"THANDIE NEWTON IS HERE.
BUT WHEN WE RETURN, PROOF THAT
THE PRESIDENT WATCH MY SHOW.
HI, IN PRESIDENT.